Can you have an else-if kind of,
like a v-if and then v-else, v-else-if?
>> Yeah, you absolutely can.
And so the question here is regarding
can we extend the if-else statement?
And absolutely, because when Evan and
the team were designing the API for this,
their goal really is to extend
upon what you already know.
So if you have if-then-else,
why not else-if?
So in this particular case,
let's just go ahead and for sake of,
we're gonna do the same thing before,
and this time, characterList.length.
And then this time, we'll just make it
even just to kind of showcase this.
And then otherwise,
we'll have a p element, a v-else says,
there are odd characters,
which is a funny joke, hahaha.
Anyways, [SOUND] so it's even right now.
So we add this now and we add another one.
Let's do Appa, refresh, boom.
So it'll run through all the scenarios,
and then at the last one.
So generally speaking,
from a performance perspective,
you do probably wanna optimize for your
most common scenario at the very top so
you don't have Vue running
through everything.
But otherwise, yeah, you can else-if,
as long as you see fit, question here.
>> I would reach for
namespacing characterList under this.
Is there any gotchas with that?
>> Namespacing the characterList.
>> The character in this characterList.
>> This in this character, down here?
>> Up in the markup.
>> Okay, so you're saying you
wanted to namespace this?
>> Yeah, I put it under this,
cuz once you get inside the character,
is character a local variable or
is it on the parent object?
So I tend to put character in
this characterList, meaning,
it's from the parent component or
parent, in this case, the app.
Is there any gotchas inside of that?
>> I see, okay, so
I'm trying to understand.
So you're saying that because of
the way it's kind of spelled out,
it's kind of confusing?
So you wanna be explicit about where
characterList is being called on for
the parent?
>> Yeah, adding this dot.
>> This dot, okay, [LAUGH] we have
avoided that up until this point.
Something that you'll notice is that we're
not actually doing anything special as far
as calling the data that's
inside of the app, right?
We have this characterList array, and all
we're doing is saying, as we can see here,
characterList, character.
We're basically naming things as we go.
And it's because Vue is basically trying
to do that step of abstracting away
the things that you would
normally have to define.
So if this were JavaScript,
you might have to be like,
I have to call the app.data.characterList
to be like I'm calling characterList.
But Vue knows that basically
there are conventions in
the way you kinda call things.
So rather than having you
explicitly define everything,
it is trying to basically
help abstract that away.
But in the future, for
those who wanna be more explicit,
there are ways to kinda namespace
that out a little bit more.
So we'll get into that later on.
Cool, go for it.
>> So I mean, you could almost say
that characterList is a global,
in a sense, or global to the app?
>> Yes, at this point, yeah, especially
once we start getting into components,
cuz components obviously is a big
part of frameworks these days.
characterList will become, well,
hold up, let me backtrack.
So your question here
is regarding whether or
not characterList becomes
global to the entire app.
And so it is global to the context
in that specific rendering context.
So in the case of this page, right,
it has the characterList, it can show it.
When we start getting into components,
it will have its own scope and
it will be separate from the parent.
So in that regard,
you cannot expect characterList
to just show up in any context.
So in Vue, it tries to basically
try to optimize for performance.
There's a performance impact when
it comes to making things global.
But more importantly, you have
namespace polluting that often happens.
And so Vue tries to protect you from
that by forcing you to be explicit
with what you want to be shared and
what you want to be made global.
So there are ways to make
global variables in Vue.
But I would say most of the time,
you're probably not doing that.
And there are other ways
you're trying to share data.
So even in the instance of, say, the use
case regarding a user being logged in,
that's something that impacts
a lot of different components.
And so in the past, the first thing you
might be tempted to do is say, well,
I'll just make a global variable that
says, hey, is the user logged in?
Cuz, I don't know,
call it 30% of our code base uses it.
But that also means 70% of
your code base doesn't use it.
And now it has this user logged in state
that it has to either worry about or
it might conflict for some other reason.
And so Vue 3 in particular, especially
with the composition API and composables,
which I promise we'll
cover in this workshop.
Allows you to then segment that to be
very explicit that on the 30% that care
about user logged in, great, drop it in.
Otherwise, you don't even
have to worry about it.
And so, we'll definitely
be talking about that, but
does it help to answer your question?
Okay, solid, did you have a question?
>> A small thing on your v-for.
>> Yeah.
>> The first and last equivalent, so
you wanna do commas, but
not on the last person.
AngularJS would be first and
last on your loop-
>> They had the first.
Okay, so you seem like we want to
render the list out as a string?
>> As a string with commas,
but not on your last guy.
>> Got it, okay, so the question here
is around if you want it to actually
list the string of characters instead
[LAUGH] that actually I would say,
okay, there's a couple
ways we could do this.
With the information we have now,
the v-for actually would probably
feel a little bit clunky because,
well, and let's show this.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So with information we have here,
if we wanted to have a p
element here instead that,
say, took a span of every
character in characterList.
List, yep, okay, then I'm gonna
do the character.name, okay?
So this should just give
us a mash of things.
Oop, I did not close it, save.
Okay, boom, right?
But what we need is we
need that comma space.
But you're probably also thinking,
okay, let me refresh this now.
Okay, that looks better.
But to your point, we need
the ability to cut off the last part.
And so, gosh, I think the way I
would do this at first glance
would basically be I would
probably just actually do a pull.
No, I think I would
just do another inline.
Using only the techniques
we have right now,
I would say we have if characterList,
or, okay.
So we wanna pull out, okay,
here's a great example of where we
need the index of something, right?
And so I'm gonna repeat this a lot because
I think this is a core thing I'd like to
see other APIs continue as well is that
we build on what you already know.
And since we're in the for
loop in JavaScript,
we can actually pull the index out by
just pulling it out as a second argument
cuz this is the standard JavaScript API.
So again, Vue really tries not to
come in and reinvent things for you.
Once you learn it,
it's a convention we know, why not use it?
So then we can go index ===
characterList.length- 1.
If that is true, empty string,
otherwise, comma like this.
And did I slightly do that off?
I can't spell off by one, once again.
And, autocomplete messed me up.
Length, length, length, this, this,
this, this, great, there we go.
So there are ways, though,
if let's say that in your app
that you wanna go ahead and do,
you're constantly stringing stuff together
and you want it to always leave off.
There are ways you can
create custom directives.
So you could pass it in and
it would do something specific.
Most of the time, I think what I've seen
people do instead is that when we talk
about computed properties in a little bit.
That's usually something
that people use a lot for
these sort of computations,
which we'll cover then.
Does that help to answer your question,
though?
Yeah, but you're right, I think Angular
did have some nice syntactic sugar for
stuff like that.
So I would say that absolutely,
that is a great callback.